Feat: Getting an agent's status (#597)
holochain/docs-pages: src/pages/build/getting-an-agents-status.md

    * [`must_get_*` Host Functions](/build/must-get-host-functions/) --- Deterministically retrieving DHT data for use in validation
    * [DHT operations](/build/dht-operations/) --- advanced details on the underlying data structure used in DHT replication and validation
    * Getting an Agent's Status (this page) --- checking for invalid actions committed by another agent
:::

::: intro
At certain points in a hApp a user may want to check on a peer's good standing in the network, particularly to find out whether they've broken the rules of a hApp or of Holochain itself. `get_agent_activity` lets you get a summary of an agent's current state, including any outstanding [**warrants**](/resources/glossary/#warrant) attached to them.
:::

## When do we need to check an agent's state?

If your app involves interactions between peers that require a high level of integrity, such as exchanging value, entering into a contract, or registering a vote, it's helpful for agents to be able to check the reputation and history of another agent before interacting with them. (We'll call this sort of interaction an 'agreement' in this document.)

> You can do this with the [`get_agent_activity`](https://docs.rs/hdk/latest/hdk/chain/fn.get_agent_activity.html) host function, which gives information about both chain forks and collected **warrants** for an agent.

Reviewer: My wording is not ideal but the [response](https://docs.rs/hdk/latest/hdk/prelude/struct.AgentActivity.html) of get_agent_activity returns more than information about chain forks and collected warrants, right? So maybe we should make this a bit clearer here.

> A warrant is a [DHT operation](/build/dht-operations/) that indicates that some agent has broken a rule, either a base Holochain rule (such as "a chain must not fork") or an app-specific validation rule encoded in a [`validate` callback](/build/validate-callback/).

Author: https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/597/commits/2691a275838f34329d185b7e6c220448f59cee50

> A warrant is created for _any_ DHT operation that fails app validation, and sent to the [authority](/resources/glossary/#validation-authority) responsible for the warranted author's [agent ID](/build/identifiers/#agent) address. No warrants are created for chain forks, because a warrant is simply a way of informing other agents of an incident on data they might not be an authority on, and agent ID authorities already watch for chain forks.<!-- TODO: change this language if chain fork warrants become a thing -->

Reviewer: I assume that warrants are issued both in case that they fail sys validation as well as app validation, right?

> A warrant is created for _any_ DHT operation that fails app validation, and sent to the [authority](/resources/glossary/#validation-authority) responsible for the warranted author's [agent ID](/build/identifiers/#agent) address. No warrants are created for chain forks, because a warrant is simply a way of informing other agents of an incident on data they might not be an authority on, and agent ID authorities already watch for chain forks.<!-- TODO: change this language if chain fork warrants become a thing -->

Author: https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/597/commits/d8e039a555185fa05a572350153ca5dd43fb2ba7

> An agent's state is not deterministic, so it's not something you check in a validation callback. Instead, you check for chain forks and warrants in a zome function when you need insight into the integrity of another agent --- like when an agent is about to enter into an agreement.

Author: https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/597/commits/ef4201bb4314a5bafb9dc112d70583127df8e855

    * [`must_get_*` Host Functions](/build/must-get-host-functions/) --- Deterministically retrieving DHT data for use in validation
    * [DHT operations](/build/dht-operations/) --- advanced details on the underlying data structure used in DHT replication and validation
    * Getting an Agent's Status (this page) --- checking for invalid actions committed by another agent
:::

::: intro
At certain points in a hApp a user may want to check on a peer's good standing in the network, particularly to find out whether they've broken the rules of a hApp or of Holochain itself. `get_agent_activity` lets you get a summary of an agent's current state, including any outstanding [**warrants**](/resources/glossary/#warrant) attached to them.
:::

## When do we need to check an agent's state?

If your app involves interactions between peers that require a high level of integrity, such as exchanging value, entering into a contract, or registering a vote, it's helpful for agents to be able to check the reputation and history of another agent before interacting with them. (We'll call this sort of interaction an 'agreement' in this document.)

> You can do this with the [`get_agent_activity`](https://docs.rs/hdk/latest/hdk/chain/fn.get_agent_activity.html) host function, which, among other information, lets an agent discover both chain forks and collected **warrants** for another agent.

Author: Yes, but chain forks can still be checked with `AgentActivity::status`.

An agent's state is not deterministic, so it's not something you check in a validation callback. Instead, you check for chain forks and warrants in a zome function when you need insight into the integrity of another agent --- like when an agent is about to enter into an agreement. (There's a similar host function, [`must_get_agent_activity`](/build/must-get-host-functions/#must-get-agent-activity), that does let you validate an op using a deterministic slice of a source chain as a dependency.)

## Get the status of an agent

To check an agent for chain forks and warrants, call `get_agent_activity` with [`ActivityRequest::Status`](https://docs.rs/hdk/latest/hdk/prelude/enum.ActivityRequest.html#variant.Status) and empty chain query filters. This will tell you whether their state is valid, without returning their whole source chain.

```rust
use hdk::prelude::*;

#[hdk_extern]

> pub fn is_agent_safe_to_interact_with(agent: AgentPubKey) -> ExternResult<bool> {

Reviewer 2: Oh I see the mention of this below! So perhaps the code should just stay concise

    * [`must_get_*` Host Functions](/build/must-get-host-functions/) --- Deterministically retrieving DHT data for use in validation
    * [DHT operations](/build/dht-operations/) --- advanced details on the underlying data structure used in DHT replication and validation
    * Getting an Agent's Status (this page) --- checking for invalid actions committed by another agent
:::

::: intro
At certain points in time, a user may want to check on a peer's good standing in the network, particularly to find out whether they've broken the rules of a hApp or of Holochain itself. The `get_agent_activity` host function lets you get a summary of an agent's current state, including any [**warrants**](/resources/glossary/#warrant) attached to them.
:::

## When do we need to check an agent's state?

If your app involves interactions between peers that require a high level of integrity, such as exchanging value, entering into a contract, or registering a vote, it's important for agents to be able to check the reputation and history of another agent before interacting with them. (We'll call this sort of interaction an 'agreement' in this document.)

> In a network where all agents are [authorities](/resources/glossary/#dht-authority) for the full DHT, all invalid data will eventually be discovered by everyone, and their Holochain conductors will automatically block the bad actor at the network level. This happens through the publishing and discovery of [**warrants**](/resources/glossary/#warrant). A warrant is a [DHT operation](/build/dht-operations/) that proves that some agent has broken a rule, either a base Holochain rule or an app-specific rule encoded in a [`validate` callback](/build/validate-callback/). The warrant contains details of the proof, signed by the validator that discovered it, and the warrant is both published to the malicious author's [agent ID](/resources/glossary/#agent-id) and returned any time someone asks for any bad data.

Author: ```suggestion
In a network where all agents are [authorities](/resources/glossary/#dht-authority) for the full DHT, all invalid data will eventually be discovered by everyone, and their Holochain conductors will automatically block the bad actor at the network level. In a sharded network, discovery of bad actors happens instead through the publishing and discovery of [**warrants**](/resources/glossary/#warrant).

A warrant is a [DHT operation](/build/dht-operations/) that proves that some agent has broken a rule, either a base Holochain rule or an app-specific rule encoded in a [`validate` callback](/build/validate-callback/). The warrant contains details of the proof, signed by the validator that discovered it, and the warrant is both published to the malicious author's [agent ID](/resources/glossary/#agent-id) address and returned any time someone asks for any bad data.
```

A warrant is a [DHT operation](/build/dht-operations/) that proves that some agent has broken a rule, either a base Holochain rule or an app-specific rule encoded in a [`validate` callback](/build/validate-callback/). The warrant contains details of the proof, signed by the validator that discovered it, and the warrant is both published to the malicious author's [agent ID](/resources/glossary/#agent-id) address and returned any time someone asks for any bad data.

<!-- TODO: remove this when chain fork warrants and blocking are stable -->

!!! info Chain fork warrants aren't available yet {#chain-fork-warrants-future}
Warrants are only produced for operations that fail app or basic system validation rules. Chain forks will be warranted in the future.
!!!

!!! info Blocking isn't operational yet {#blocking-future}
Malicious agents currently aren't blocked when a warrant is found; this will be implemented in a future release.
!!!

> However, in a DHT where agents hold [shards](/resources/glossary/#sharding) of the total data set, not everyone will discover all warrants. They can be discovered actively though: if you call `get`, `get_details`, or `get_links` on an address with invalid data stored at it, the authority will return a warrant to you, and your conductor will check the warrant's validity, remember the warrant, and block the bad actor.

Author: so am I :) I'll see if I can figure it out from the code.

This is because code path in a [`validate` callback](/build/validate-callback/) for _one_ operation may find invalid data, but the code path for _another_ operation produced from _the same action_ might not. For example, if the `validate` callback for an [`Update` action](/build/dht-operations/#update) checks that the author has permission to update an entry when it's validating the action's [`RegisterUpdate`](/build/dht-operations/#registerupdate) operation but not when it's validating the [`StoreEntry`](/build/dht-operations/#storeentry) operation, then checking the entry hash for a permission violation won't turn up any problems.

So the best place to check for _all_ invalid operations for an agent is at the agent's public key, which is where other validators of the agent's operations will publish warrants to. You can do this with the [`get_agent_activity`](https://docs.rs/hdk/latest/hdk/chain/fn.get_agent_activity.html) host function, which, among other information, lets an agent discover both chain forks and collected warrants for another agent.

> An agent's state is not deterministic, so it's not something you can check in a `validate` callback. Instead, you check for chain forks and warrants in a zome function when you need insight into the integrity of another agent --- like when an agent is about to enter into an agreement.

Reviewer: Maybe "you" is not ideal either. But I find the current phrasing a bit confusing because it's using the word agent twice but referring to a different agent if I understand it correctly.

!!! Warrants are 'sticky'
Once an agent receives a warrant from any source, Holochain validates it to make sure it's legitimate. If it is, Holochain stores it permanently. (In the future, they'll also [block the warranted agent](#blocking-future)). This isn't true yet of chain forks, which [don't yet produce warrants](#chain-fork-warrants-future).
!!!

## Get the status of an agent

To check an agent for chain forks and warrants, call `get_agent_activity` with [`ActivityRequest::Status`](https://docs.rs/hdk/latest/hdk/prelude/enum.ActivityRequest.html#variant.Status) and empty chain query filters. This will tell you whether their state is currently valid, without returning their whole source chain.

```rust
use hdk::prelude::*;

#[hdk_extern]
pub fn is_agent_currently_safe_to_interact_with(agent: AgentPubKey) -> ExternResult<bool> {
    let agent_state = get_agent_activity(
        agent,
        // We're not interested in the contents of their chain, so we don't
        // need to specify any chain query filters.

>         ChainQueryFilter::new(),

Reviewer: The [docs for ChainQueryFilter::new()](https://docs.rs/hdk/latest/hdk/prelude/struct.QueryFilter.html#method.new) say

> Create a no-op ChainQueryFilter which returns everything.

Does that contradict your doc comment about not being interested in the chain's contents? It sounds like it actually returns the full chain.

    GoodSoFar,
    /// The proposal may be invalid, either because the agent ID authority
    /// discovered a chain-based error or another op authority discovered
    /// an issue and sent a warrant to the agent ID authority.
    /// The proposal may also be valid but follow after a prior invalid action.
    /// Either way, the initiator is a bad actor.
    Invalid,
}

#[derive(Deserialize, Debug)]
pub struct IsProposalCurrentlyGoodInput {
    pub initiator: AgentPubKey,
    pub proposal_hash: ActionHash,
}

// To be called by the front end at intervals -- first, in a polling loop
// until it stops reporting `ProposalStatus::NotAvailable`, and then, if it
// reports `ProposalStatus::GoodSoFar`, calling it again after a suitable delay
// to allow authorities to discover and report evidence of bad activity.
#[hdk_extern]
pub fn is_proposal_currently_good(input: IsProposalCurrentlyGoodInput) -> ExternResult<ProposalStatus> {
    let initiator_state = get_agent_activity(
        input.initiator,
        ChainQueryFilter::new()
            // Here we're only asking for the proposal record, nothing earlier.
            // We just want to know it's been published and validated.

>             // Since we're dealing with a 'scarce' resource like an account

Author: The advice for when to use this pattern is when you're dealing with a scarce resource, so I wanted to mention that in the code comments without getting so verbose as to show how to do it for a contrived use case. Do you think there'd be a clearer way to write this?

>             // Since we're dealing with a 'scarce' resource like an account

Reviewer: > Do you think there'd be a clearer way to write this?

I'm not sure. I think it is somewhat contradicting at the moment because it says "we just want to know it's been published and validated." but then that "we'd also want to check the whole chain". Both sounded to me like it is the desired behavior but at the same time it's mutually exclusive.
So I'd maybe extend the wording along the lines of "For the sake of simplicity we just check that it's been published and validated in this example..." and then "However, since we're dealing with a scarce resource [...] we'd also want to check the whole chain in case of a more serious implementation in order to make sure [...]"?
